# SwingProb
Determining Swing Probability of MLB players

The data set I used was three csv files which had year 1, 2, and 3 seasonal data for MLB players. My goal for the project is to be give a swing probability for all pitches in the year 3 dataset. 

I started with data consolidation work, merging datasets from the first two seasons to construct a combined training set. Simultaneously, the third season's data was set as well for validation purposes and I applied the same preprocessing steps from the combined dataset to this year 3 dataset. Initial data exploration revealed missing entries, which were addressed by designating “Unknown” to absent pitch types and generating unique identifiers for missing pitch IDs. I then dropped all rows which contained the “Unknown” tag for pitch ID since those rows were missing all tracking data as well as dropping the batter, and pitcher columns. This meant that my model was going to focus on the pitch characteristics. This decision was based on my hypothesis that a pitch's outcome is more influenced by its intrinsic attributes rather than the players involved. For the missing under release speeds, I calculated the median speed by pitch type and filled in the missing cells with the corresponding median. Once both datasets were filled in, I conducted some exploratory work to see any relationships between the variables given. For example, I looked at how often each pitch type was used and the frequency of the various outcomes for each pitch type as shown in the visuals below. 
